[Guide] Configuration profiles for Android (#33860)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/custom-os-settings.md

# Custom OS settings

In Fleet you can enforce OS settings like security restrictions, screen lock, Wi-Fi, etc., on your macOS, iOS, iPadOS, Windows, and Android hosts using configuration profiles.

## Create configuration profile

For macOS, iOS, and iPadOS hosts, Fleet recommends the [iMazing Profile Creator](https://imazing.com/profile-editor) tool for creating and exporting macOS configuration profiles. Fleet signs these profiles for you. If you have self-signed profiles, run this command to unsign them: `/usr/bin/security cms -D -i  /path/to/profile/profile.mobileconfig | xmllint --format -`

For Windows hosts, copy this [Windows configuration profile template](https://fleetdm.com/example-windows-profile) and update the profile using any [configuration service providers (CSPs)](https://fleetdm.com/guides/creating-windows-csps) from [Microsoft's MDM protocol](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/client-management/mdm/).

> For Android hosts, copy this [Android configuration profile template](https://fleetdm.com/learn-more-about/example-android-profile) and update the profile using the options available in [Android Management API](https://developers.google.com/android/management/reference/rest/v1/enterprises.policies#resource:-policy). To learn how, watch [this video](TODO).

Author: ```suggestion
For Android hosts, copy this [Android configuration profile template](https://fleetdm.com/learn-more-about/example-android-profile) and update the profile using the options available in [Android Management API](https://developers.google.com/android/management/reference/rest/v1/enterprises.policies#resource:-policy). To learn how, watch [this video](https://youtu.be/Jk4Zcb2sR1w).
```

If you want to make sure the profile stays device-scoped, update `PayloadScope` to `System` or remove `PayloadScope` entirely. The default scope in Fleet is `System`. 

#### Broken profiles

If one or more labels included in the profile's scope are deleted, the profile will not apply to new hosts that enroll.
On macOS, iOS, iPadOS, and Windows, a broken profile will not remove the enforcement of the OS settings applied to existing hosts. However, on Android, a broken profile will remove the enforcement of the OS settings for existing hosts. To apply the profile to new hosts, delete it and upload it again.

## See status

In the Fleet UI, head to the **Controls > OS settings** tab.

In the top box, with "Verified," "Verifying," "Pending," and "Failed" statuses, click each status to view a list of hosts:

> * **Verified**: hosts that applied all OS settings. Fleet verified by running an osquery query on Windows and macOS hosts (declarations profiles are verified with a [DDM StatusReport](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/devicemanagement/statusreport)). Currently, iOS and iPadOS hosts are "Verified" after they acknowledge all MDM commands to apply OS settings. Android hosts are "Verified" after Fleet gets a status report from the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Verified**: hosts that applied all OS settings. Fleet verified by running an osquery query on Windows and macOS hosts (declarations profiles are verified with a [DDM StatusReport](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/devicemanagement/statusreport)). Currently, iOS and iPadOS hosts are "Verified" after they acknowledge all MDM commands to apply OS settings. Android hosts are "Verified" after Fleet gets a status report via the [Android Management API](TODO) from the host.
```

@marko-lisica is there a spot in the Android API doc where users can see what a status report means / looks like?
